DESIGN.txt

Problem:
    To detect the ASL sign the user signs in front of Kinect and gives out the
    meaning of the sign.


Approach:
    Each word is stored as a movement of body joints. Each sign is diveded into 4
    frames, each of which is a frozen gesture of the sign, one following another 
    in the sequence of how the word should be signed. In side each frame there 
    are key joint position classes that indicate the vectors pointing from a 
    relative joint to a key joint.


User Interface:
    Since it's a tool for users to translate ASL. I want it to be as straight-
    forward as possible. Once the user runs the program, he/she will see the 
    instructions on the starter page and can move on to using the program directly
    as he/she wants.


Programs I Studied Before I Started:

    1. Sign Sign Revolution - Kimberly Lim
        This is a 112 term project from last semester. It's a game that teaches
        people ASL through music videos made by Erik Pintar.
        o   https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F7I_h_oFmco&nohtml5=False

            Good: It's a very interesting and challenging idea to use Kinect to 
                  detect ASL signs. 
            Bad:  I don't think it's very practical to let users learn ASL by 
                  watching ASL music videos
        So I decided to make a dictionary instead of a tutorial program.

    2. Kinect Sign Language Translator by Microsoft
        This a project conducted by Microsoft that uses Kinect to translate a
        kind of sign language into another sign or spoken language.
        o   http://research.microsoft.com/en-us/collaboration/stories/kinect-sign-language-translator.aspx

            Good: Recognizing gestures and returning the words
                  Increasing vocabulary storage by letting user record and type 
                  in the word corresponding to the gesture
            Bad:  Impractical for me to achieve. I won’t translate the input 
                  sign language into another sign language or spoken language.
                  I also won’t include the human voice produced by the machine.
                  My project will be a one-way dictionary only, instead of a 
                  translator.

